.. _DL160_G6:

HP DL160 G6 Intel Nehalem compute node
======================================

.. Contents::

In May/June 2009 we expect to receive the first HP DL160 G6 Intel Nehalem compute nodes.

HP product info and support
-----------------------------------

Product information and specifications for 
`HP ProLiant DL160 G6 Server series <http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/us/en/en/WF25a/15351-15351-3328412-241644-3328421-3884343.html>`_.
There are `Quickspecs <http://h18004.www1.hp.com/products/quickspecs/13247_div/13247_div.html>`_ 
and `Manuals <http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/DocumentIndex.jsp?contentType=SupportManual&lang=en&cc=us&docIndexId=64180&taskId=101&prodTypeId=15351&prodSeriesId=3884343>`_
for DL160 G6.

There is a page with `DL160 G6 drivers and downloads <http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareIndex.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodNameId=3884344&prodTypeId=15351&prodSeriesId=3884343&swLang=13&taskId=135&swEnvOID=4004>`_ 
for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 Server (x86-64).

DL160 CPLD upgrade
-----------------------------------

**False error messages** about power supplies will be logged to the system.
This problem does not affect the operation of the server, but is still annoying.

The `Advisory  c02499696 <https://support.hpe.com/hpsc/doc/public/display?docId=emr_na-c02499696>`_
*ProLiant 100-Series Servers - Certain ProLiant 100-Series Servers Configured with HP ProLiant Server Health Driver Version 8.50 (or Earlier) And Red Hat Linux 5 Update 4 May Display False Power Supply Status Messages*
states::

  Certain ProLiant 100-series servers configured with the HP ProLiant Server Health Driver Version 8.50 (or earlier) and Red Hat Linux 5 Update 4 may, on rare occasions, display the following false power supply status messages in the /var/log/messages file:
  Jun 5 01:08:09 localhost hpasmpld[4181]: CRITICAL: System Power Supply Removed (Power Supply 1)
  Jun 5 01:08:19 localhost hpasmpld[4181]: NOTICE: System Power Supply Inserted (Power Supply 1)
  The error message may be logged every few days or weekly. This typically occurs when a single power supply is installed in the server.

This also applies to Windows servers, see `Advisory c03027164 <https://support.hpe.com/hpsc/doc/public/display?docId=emr_na-c03027164&docLocale=en_US>`_.

The solution is to download and install SoftPaq SP50423 **CPLD Version 1.12** from
https://downloads.hpe.com/pub/softlib2/software1/pubsw-windows/p3231552/v64980/SP50423.exe

Installation instructions are missing, but they are:

1. Execute ``SP50423.exe`` on a Windows PC.

2. Go to the folder ``C:\\swsetup\\SP50423`` and create either a bootable CD or a bootable USB key from the subfolders.

3. Boot the DL160 G6 server to the CD or USB key and follow instructions.

4. After the CPLD version 1.12 upgrade is completed, **physically unplug power for 1 minute**.


DL160 G6 Diagnostics
-----------------------------------

To perform a hardware inventory or hardware diagnostics, you need to boot the *HP ProLiant DL160 G6 Easy Set-up CD*
downloadable from the above mentioned downloads page.
With this CD there is a tool to create a bootable USB memory stick, however, to enable boot from USB devices see the advice below.

Select the *HP Insight Diagnostics Offline Edition* for inventory or diagnostics.

Please note that version 2.00 has a bug described in this Advisory: 
`Processor Temperature Test" Incorrectly Fails Under HP Insight Diagnostics Offline Edition 8.2.5.3157 When Launched from the Easy Setup CD <http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&taskId=110&prodSeriesId=3884343&prodTypeId=15351&prodSeriesId=3884343&objectID=c01751803>`_.
For each processor, uncheck the *System->Processor Package 1->Processor Temperature Test* to prevent the test from running and therefore returning an incorrect result.

DL160 G6 BIOS settings
-----------------------------------

A number of factory default BIOS settings must be changed:

 * **Advanced->CPU Configuration**::

     *Intel VT-d*                      = Disabled (Virtualization I/O - was in Advanced menu until BIOS 20100519).
     *Intel Virtualization Technology* = Disabled (Virtualization).
     *Intel HT technology*             = Disabled (Hyperthreading).

 * The **Advanced->SATA Configuration:** = Compatibility **MUST** be changed prior to OS installation::

     SATA#1 Controller Mode = AHCI

 * **Advanced:** *Power Efficiency Mode* = Performance.

 * The **Boot->Standard Boot Order:** is changed so that *Network* is before *Hard drive*.

 * The **Boot->Boot Settings Configuration:** is changed so that *Num Lock* = Disabled.

 * The **Boot->Boot Settings Configuration:** is changed so that *Quiet Boot* = Disabled.

Booting from an USB device
--------------------------

The HP DL100 series servers' BIOS seem to detect USB disk devices and memory sticks as a built-in hard disk.
This means that the boot order is confusing, but you can boot different devices like this:

1. USB CD-ROM drives will always be the 1st boot device (maybe there's a BIOS setting to modify this?).

2. USB disk devices and memory sticks will become hard drive #1, making the built-in hard disk #2.

3. If PXE is the first boot device, PXE booting can be interrupted by pressing the keyboard **ESC** button, causing the BIOS to boot from the hard disk #1 device,
   which is the USB disk device (if inserted before starting the server).

If you need to boot a HP Diagnostics or other USB disk device, use method 3. above.

CentOS installation on DL160 G6
-----------------------------------

Disk performance problem
------------------------

If you use the::

  SATA Configuration = Compatibility

BIOS setting, you will have serious disk performance problems.
This can to some extent be alleviated by the procedure below, but it is recommended to use the **AHCI setting** as shown above.

The initial CentOS 5.3 installation has very bad disk performance even with `pci=conf1`, and this needs to be replaced in ``/etc/grub.conf`` by::

  pci=nomsi,nommconf hda=noprobe hdc=noprobe

See https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=439391 (postings at the end).

**Note**: after the kickstart installation please make sure that ``/etc/grub.conf`` contains
the necessary kernel flags.

CentOS 5.3 does **not** fix this problem (tested with kernel 2.6.18-128.1.6.el5PAE), so `noprobe` flags are still needed.
This solution obsoletes the kernel replacement stuff documented below.

DL160 G6 BIOS upgrades
-----------------------------------

BIOS upgrade from Linux
-----------------------

BIOS upgrades can be performed from Linux using the *Online ROM Flash Component for Linux - HP ProLiant DL160 G6 Servers* from the above download page.

Run the script as root, for example::

  sh CP010987.scexe

BIOS upgrade from PXE boot
--------------------------

HP also delivers ROMPAQ BIOS upgrades for USB key media, and *flat files*, in a Windows executable .EXE file.
However, the BIOS flat files can be copied to a 1.44 MB diskette image which may be used as a PXE-bootable image file.

Unpack the ROMPAQ SPxxxxx.EXE file on a Windows PC and copy the folders to a Linux system.

Before running an unattended BIOS upgrade from DOS, first check the available command flags which are::

  > rompaq.exe /?

  Usage:    ROMPAQ [options]
  Options:
   /B[ootblock]   (Simulate disaster recovery mode)
   /C[ompress]    infile product_id rom_index rom_revision
                  [iterate_size (in Kbytes)]
                  (Compress infile using specified args in header)
   /CS            infile
                  (Short form compression.  Driver must support this feature.
   /D[ecompress]  infile outfile
                  (Decompress infile to outfile)
   /F[actory]     driver product_id
                  (Run in factory mode and update specified product ROM)
   /H[elp] or /?  (Display this message)
   /R[emote]      (Run in remote mode)
   /S[pawned]     (Return non-zero val if spawning program should reboot)
   /T[ext]        (Use text mode interface instead of graphics)
   /U[nattended]  driver image_file
                  (Run in unattended mode and update specified product ROM)
   /V[erify]      infile
                  (Verify the checksum of infile)
   /X [test]      (Pass test mode flag to drivers)
   /! [Halt]      (Halt machine instead of exiting to DOS)

Creating a bootable DOS diskette image
--------------------------------------

We need to obtain a DOS bootable diskette image from some alternative source.
A very minimal DOS image is required because of the 1.44 MB diskette image size limit.

We have used the http://www.bootdisk.com/bootdisk.htm image `Special Disk For Bios Flashing <http://www.rloe.com/ken/drdflash.zip>`_.
Unzip the DRDFLASH files to an empty directory and mount the image::

  mkdir drdflash
  cd drdflash
  unzip ../drdflash.zip
  cp DRDFLASH.IMG /tmp/dl160g6_bios.img
  mount -o loop /tmp/dl160g6_bios.img /mnt

Changing boot diskette from 1.44MB to 2.88MB
--------------------------------------------

The files to be copied to the boot diskette image may cause a *disk full* error on 1.44MB diskettes.

It is however possible to change the ``DRDFLASH.IMG`` image from 1.44MB to 2.88MB using the shareware tool `WinImage <http://www.winimage.com/download.htm>`_ on a Windows PC.
Open the ``DRDFLASH.IMG`` image with *WinImage* and select the menu item *Image->Change format...* and select *Standard format: 2.88 MB*.
Save the image and exit *WinImage*.

Creating a ROMPAQ boot diskette image
-------------------------------------

Mount the above mentioned DOS bootable diskette image as described above.

First copy the ROMPAQ files to a Linux PC as described above.  Then copy the ROMPAQ files to the image::

  cp .../ROMPaq Flat Files/* /mnt/

Edit the DRDFLASH file */mnt/autoexec.bat* (make sure that the file contains CR-LF at the end, use *od -c autoexec.bat*) to append a line similar to::

  ROMPAQ /T /U CPQSRVR2.CPU CPQO3302.xxx

Here CPQSRVR2.CPU is the driver and CPQO3302.xxx is the image file.
**Remember** to change the **filename CPQO3302.xxx** in *autoexec.bat* according to the filenames in the ROMPAQ !

The ``/U`` and ``/T`` flags should be used for unattended BIOS upgrades.

Unmount the image and copy it to /tftpboot on the TFTP boot server::

  umount /mnt
  scp /tmp/dl160g6_bios.img root@ymer:/tftpboot/dl160g6/


For standard interactive BIOS upgrade the *autoexec.bat* file should contain::

  ROMPAQ.EXE /L:US /!

This line can only be seen from the USB key upgrade media, it doesn't seem to be documented (and the /L flag is undocumented).

AFUDOS BIOS upgrades
--------------------

BIOS upgrades newer than 07/06/2011 use the AMI BIOS AFUDOS.EXE *AMI FLASH UTILITY for DOS*.
The default AUTOEXEC.BAT file on the DOS upgrade image calls a file FBB.BAT containing::

  echo Flashing Main BIOS & Boot Block...
  afudos 18DIM243.ROM /p /b /s /q

This will do an unattended BIOS upgrade and leave at the DOS prompt, from which the user must reboot manually.
To list all command flags do::

  afudos /h

DL160 G6 BIOS parameter replication
-----------------------------------

The DL160 G6 BIOS parameter settings can be saved or restored by means of the HP *SmartStart Scripting Toolkit for Linux* (see the downloads page).
However, `version 2.20 <http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareDescription.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodTypeId=15351&prodSeriesId=3884343&prodNameId=3884344&swEnvOID=4004&swLang=13&mode=2&taskId=135&swItem=MTX-1df77aded07e4f62b55a101a82>`_
or greater of this toolkit is required for use with the DL100 series servers.

When running under Linux (using e.g. CentOS or SmartStart), use this command on a DL160 G6 node to save the BIOS settings to a file::

  cd /home/ymer/SmartStartScripting-2.20/utilities
  ./conrep -s -f /tmp/conrep.xml -x ../conrep_xml/ConrepDL160G6.xml

The file ``/tmp/conrep.xml`` contains the BIOS settings that can be restored by::

    cd /home/ymer/SmartStartScripting-2.20/utilities
  ./conrep -l -f /tmp/conrep.xml -x ../conrep_xml/ConrepDL160G6.xml

The *conrep* command syntax is::

  Usage conrep -s | -l [-f output filename] [-x xml configuration filename] [-?]

  -s Saves the current configuration to a file.
  -l Loads configuration setting from a file.
  -f Name of the output file.
  -x Name of the XML definition file.
        If not present, the XML configuration will default to conrep.xml
        If not present, the output filename default to conrep.dat

  Error Codes:
        0 - Success
        1 - Bad XML File
        2 - Bad Data File
        4 - Admin Password set
        5 - No XML Tag


DL160G6 BMC
-----------------------------------

The on-board BMC controller is documented in the manual 
`Lights-Out 100 User Guide
<http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/CoreRedirect.jsp?redirectReason=DocIndexPDF&prodSeriesId=3884343&targetPage=http%3A%2F%2Fbizsupport1.austin.hp.com%2Fbc%2Fdocs%2Fsupport%2FSupportManual%2Fc02063205%2Fc02063205.pdf>`_.

The BMC MAC address is found in the *Setup* screen *IPMI Configuration->Lan Configuration* where you can also configure DHCP.
You enable the LO100 Shared Ethernet network access as described on pages 7 and 9 with the IP-address being assigned by DHCP:

1. Boot into BIOS Setup (F10).
2. Go to the setup window *IPMI Configuration->Set LAN Configuration*.
3. Set the item *BMC NIC Allocation* to *Shared* (default is *Dedicated*).

You can also use the IPMI interface to configure the BMC, but you **cannot** change the *BMC NIC Allocation*!

BMC firmware updates
--------------------

HP has released BMC firmware updates that can be executed under Linux.
In the software download page see the item *Online Firmware Flash Component for Linux - HP ProLiant G6/G7 Lights-Out 100 Remote Management*
which was first released in June 2010.

Download and execute the BMC firmware update file on-line under Linux.
However, due to the bad way HP's utilities handle the IPMI interface, special care must be done when upgrading the BMC.
You **must** manually handle the starting and stopping of IPMI in the following way::

  service ipmi restart  # Initialize IPMI correctly
  sh CP013308.scexe     # Run firmware upgrade tool
  service ipmi restart  # Reinitialize IPMI correctly after upgrade
  service ipmi stop     # Stop IPMI correctly

If you neglect to perform the mentioned IPMI commands, a superfluous CPU load of 1.0 will be permanently added to your system!

BMC firmware updates on CentOS6/RHEL6
.....................................

On CentOS6/RHEL6 the BMC firmware update script doesn't work, you get this error::

  # ./CP017117.scexe
  ./hpsetup: line 2: .: lo100.sh: file not found
  Parameters are: --source /root
  ./hpsetup: line 7: lo100main: command not found

First you must install this package::

  yum install libstdc++-4.4.6-3.el6.i686

The problem seems to be the newer version of *bash* in RHEL6.
A simple workaround is to prepend "." to the PATH::

  PATH=.:${PATH}
  ./CP017117.scexe

See advice in http://jfut.integ.jp/2012/04/20/update-hp-firmware-error-on-rhel6-another/.

Another method: Extract the contents of the CPxxxxxx.scexe package::

   ./CP017117.scexe  --unpack=setup

which will extract to the directory ``setup``.
In the script ``hpsetup`` change the shell from *sh* to *bash*, see http://jfut.integ.jp/2012/03/18/update-hp-firmware-error-on-rhel6/.
Then run the ``hpsetup`` script.

Alternative method of network updating
......................................

The section "Remotely updating the firmware" on the manual's page 11 first creates an uncompressed binary image file::

   rompaq /d CPQQ1402.272 ldrimage.bin 

You can now telnet to the BMC IP-address using the default username/password of **admin/admin**.

To upgrade the BMC firmware from the telnet prompt::

  cd map1/firmware
  load -source //10.2.128.2/dl160g6/LDRIMAGE.BIN -oemhpfiletype csr 

However, this doesn't seem to work (June 25, 2009), and neither does update from a web browser.

DL100 series SETSYS (setting the serial number)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

When the system board is replaced, the `Setsys Utility for HP ProLiant 100 series G5 and G6 Servers (For USB Key-Media) 
<http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareDescription.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodTypeId=15351&prodSeriesId=3580694&prodNameId=3580695&swEnvOID=2081&swLang=8&mode=2&taskId=135&swItem=MTX-1d48ae3f19d945b481c20736d6>`_ 
must be booted to set the serial number in the new system board.

You can find updated versions of SETSYS under the *DL160 G5* with 
`DR-DOS operating system <http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/SoftwareIndex.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&prodNameId=3580695&prodTypeId=15351&prodSeriesId=3580694&swLang=8&taskId=135&swEnvOID=2081>`_
(not yet with *DL160 G6*).

To make a PXE-bootable image with SETSYS, prepare a minimal DOS image as shown above for the BIOS.
Unpack the HP utility and copy the files from the *Flat Files* folder to the image.

Usage information for SETSYS is obtained by::

  SETSYS /?

The HP SETSYS utility command to update the serial number must be typed in UPPER CASE:

* Type the following (with the appropriate Serial Number)::

      SETSYS /S=GBxxxxxxx

* Run just SETSYS (no switches) to verify change.



DL160 power supply
-----------------------------------

Our DL160 G6 nodes all use the *HP High Efficiency 460W Power Supply Kit* (P/N 535684-B21).
If you want to buy a spare part power supply, the part number is P/N **511777-001**.
